# RADI603
Assignment

The emergence of infectious diseases with pandemic potential has served as a wake-up call to various governments across the globe. Througout human history, the biological threat of a pandemic disease has been devastating on an unprecedented scale, as evidenced by diseases such as COVID-19, influenza, and the bubonic plague. Because of these risks, the rapid spread of the Monkeypox disease this year has posed another global threat during COVID-19 pandemic. The Monkeypox, primarily caused by the monkeypox virus, is an infectious zoonotic disease which is closely related to smallpox but with milder infection. The World Health Organization (WHO) already declared the Monkeypox outbreak an international public health emergency, citing with a staggering increase of 30,000 cases worldwide. While the WHO has not declared the monkeypox oubreak a pandemic, several epidemiologists have highlighted the severity of monkeypox disease infection among the human population.

The transmission of monkeypox virus occurs when a person comes into contact with an infected animal or human. The virus is highly susceptible (i.e., able to contract the disease) to various animal species, particularly on non-human primates (e.g. monkeys). Animal-to-human transmission occurs primarily when infected monkeys transmit the monkeypox virus via bite, scratch, or even contaminated monkey meat preparation. Human-to-human transmission also occurs when infected humans pass the virus on to other people through direct contact with bodily fluids (i.e., sweat, semen, blood). Those who are susceptible can be exposed to the virus (i.e., have been infected but are not yet infectious) and will become infected (i.e., capable of transmitting the disease to other humans) at any time. Unfortunately, there is no known monkeypox vaccine in circulation, but smallpox vaccine may be used as a protection against Monkeypox with 85% effectivity. Nonetheless, while most infected people may recover from Monkeypox, the WHO highly recommends infected patients to take vaccine, especially if symptoms are severe.
